# Week 11B

## I. Review

- Questions about [SimpleModels HW](11A.md#iii-simplemodels-hw)?

---

## II. DomoMaker A
- This exercise is the first of a 5-part series to build a small MVC-based login system with some basic per-user functionality.
- You will be building a site to make new "Domo" characters and track some basic stats. The user will make an account, login and then name their new character and give them an age.
- Data will be persisted in MongoDB Atlas (the "cloud") and users will be able to login on any computer and see the characters they have created

### II-A. Get Started!
- Important --> `git clone <url>` the starting repo, or download the ZIP, OR fork the start code repo on github.com
- Important --> when you set up your MongoDB Atlas connection string, name the database `/DomoMaker` ...
- ... also, add these two params to the end (for Atlas) - like this - `.../DomoMaker?retryWrites=true&w=majority`
  - https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/core/retryable-writes/
  - https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/reference/write-concern
- Another thing - want to get rid of these annoying ESLint warnings about console.logs?
  - add `"no-console": "off"` to your **.eslintrc** file

---

### II-B. All done and working?
- Two things to fix in **app.js**:
  - go ahead and uninstall `bodyParser` and modify the code to work without it
  - you need to hide your MongoDB Atlas connection string somewhere, otherwise it will be visible in GitHub! There are 2 ways we could do this.
 
#### II-B-i. One way - create a mongo-connection.js file
- Create **mongo-connection.js** and put it at the top level of the project (the same as **.gitignore** or **package.json** for example)
- Add **mongo-connection.js** to **.gitignore**
- Make **.gitignore** look like this:

```js
module.exports = 'mongodb+srv://...your-connection-string.../DomoMaker-A';
```

- Now the `const dbURI = ...` in **app.js** needs to look like this ...
  - ... `const dbURI = process.env.MONGODB_URI || require('../.mongo-connection.js');`
- And to make ESLint happy ...
  - add ` "global-require": "off"` to your **.eslintrc** file

#### II-B-ii. Another way - a .env file
 - But the standard Nodejs way is to use the [`dotenv` package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv ) and a **.env file** 
 - You can just make a simple **.env** file that says `MONGODB_URI=CONNECTION_STRING_HERE` and have it load that into process.env.MONGODB_URI just like heroku would with their config vars
 - See the DomoMaker-C PDF - we use `dotenv` for redis

---

 ### III-C. Push this to GitHub
 - Have you run `npm test` yet? Better do so now (and fix any errors!)
 - Now go ahead and `git add .` and `git commit -m "First commit` and ``your local code to get it up to date
 - Create a new empty repo on GitHub named **DomoMaker**
 - You'll see some code like this for connecting an existing local repo to this remote repo (but don't type it in yet!):

```
git remote add origin https://github.com/<your-id>/DomoMaker-A.git
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main
```

- But because your local repo already has an `origin`, that line will instead have to look like this ...
  - ... `git remote set-url origin https://github.com/<your-id>/DomoMaker-A.git`

---

### III-D. Create a Heroku App
- Name it **&lt;abc1234>-domomaker** (where &lt;abc1234> is your id)

---
---

| <-- Previous Unit | Home | Next Unit -->
| --- | --- | --- 
|   [**Week 11A Notes**](11A.md)  |  [**IGME-430 Home**](../) | Week 12A Notes
